.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH RADCLOCK 8 "July 18, 2007" "" "The radclock daemon"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
radclock \- The radclock daemon 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radclock
[ -xdLvvvh ] [ -c config_file ] [ -l log_file ] [ -i iface ] [ -n hostname ] [ -t hostname ] [ -p period ] [ -r pcap_in ] [ -s ascii_in ] [ -w pcap_out ] [ -a ascii_out ] [ -o sync_out ] 
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents the \fBradclock\fP daemon. See README and INSTALL files 
provided with the package for some basic documentation. Updates and troubleshooting
can be found from the page:
.br
http://www.synclab.org/radclock/.
.PP
The \fBradclock\fP is a software clock taking advantage of the stability of the CPU
oscillator. It relies on the processing of timestamps to a reference clock carried 
over the network in NTP packets. To work correctly and provide maximum accuracy it
is is essential to know an NTP compatible reference server (stratum-1 HIGHLY 
recommended). Also the host running the radclock should be able to generate a stream
of NTP packets (using ntpd daemon or ntpdate).
.br
The radclock does not affect the system clock on the system and both clocks can be run
in parallel. An API is defined to access the time created by the radclock through the 
libradclock library.
.br
The radclock runs in two distinct modes. If a radclock patched kernel has been installed
the radclock is able to run in "kernel mode" providing low system noise synchronisation
and kernel timestamping ability. Without kernel support, the radclock runs in "userland 
mode" where the true timestamps are inferred without the possibility to timestamp packets.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -x 
If running with kernel support (that is with a radclock patched kernel) this option 
prevents the update of the radclock in the kernel structure. This may be particularly 
useful to have different instances of the radclock running for replay of data without
interfering with the system daemon. Without kernel support this option has no effect.
.TP
.B -d
Run the radclock as a daemon. Requires super-user privileges.
.TP
.B -L
Do not use the local CPU rate refinement. The default behaviour is to use the local 
rate refinement for faster adaptation.
.TP
.B -v
Verbose output in the log file.
.TP
.B -vv
More verbose output in the log file.
.TP
.B -h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B "-c config_file"
Specifies the path to alternative configuration file. 
.TP
.B "-l log_file"
Specifies the path to alternative log file.
.TP
.B "-i iface"
Specifies the interface the radclock should use to capture NTP packets.
.TP
.B "-n hostname"
Specifies the local hostname currently running the radclock. This is essential to 
guarantee the radclock processes only the NTP requests originating at the host.  
.TP
.B "-t hostname"
Specifies the time server hostname we send requests to. This should match the
configuration used by the ntpd daemon if using piggy-backing mode.
.TP
.B "-p period"
The radclock expects the ntpd daemon or the ntpdate calls to send packets with a fixed 
polling period. The value provided MUST match the one used by the ntpd daemon or ntpdate.
The default value is 16 seconds (2^4).
.TP
.B "-r pcap_in"
Replay mode. Makes the radclock replay a previously stored raw file in pcap format instead
of capturing packets on a live interface.
.TP
.B "-r ascii_in"
Replay mode. Makes the radclock replay a previously stored raw file in ascii format instead
of capturing packets on a live interface.
.TP
.B "-w pcap_out"
Makes the radclock store a raw data file in pcap format. This pcap file can aslo be read in 
tcpdump or process with libpcap. WARNING: there are some alterations to the original pcap 
format.
.TP
.B "-a ascii_out"
Makes the radclock store a raw data file in ascii format. This file contains the 
timestamps extracted from NTP packets.
.TP
.B "-o sync_out"
Makes the radclock store a synchronization data file that provides radclock 
performance indicators.
.SH FILES 
.TP
.I /etc/radclock.conf
If run as a daemon the radclock parses the configuration file. If the configuration 
file does not exist it is created. Command line parameters overwrite the parameter 
values stored in the configuration file.
.TP
.I radclock.conf
If the radclock does not run as a daemon it parses or creates a configuration 
in the working directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR radclock.conf (5)
.P
The home of RADclock: http://www.synclab.org/radclock
.br
.SH REPORTING BUGS 
.SH COPYRIGHT
.SH AUTHOR
See AUTHORS file for a list of all contributors to the code.
.PP
This manual page was written by Julien Ridoux <julien@synclab.org>.
