.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH RADCLOCK.CONF 5 "July 18, 2007" "" "The radclock daemon configuration file"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
radclock.conf \- The radclock daemon configuration file 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I radclock.conf
is the configuration file for the \fBradclock\fP daemon and binary. For testing and
replay purposes different configuration files can be created and edited. If the
\fBradclock\fP is run as a daemon (using the -d option), the radclock looks for the 
.I /etc/radclock.conf
configuration file. If not running as a daemon, the radclock binary is looking for a 
.I radclock.conf
configuration file in the current directory.
.PP
If none configuration file is found a new one is created with default values for all
parameters. If an existing but outdated (version-wise) configuration file is found it
is updated while keeping existing values.
Finally, any command line option overwrites values specified in the configuration file.
.PP
The configuration file is organized in sections that have no impact except making it
easier to understand the different options..
.PP
.SH THE PACKAGE VERSION SECTION 
.P
.B package_version
This option specifies the version of the package currently installed. It is also used
to check if the configuration file is outdated or not. This should not be modified.
.SH THE RUNNING PARAMETERS SECTION
Indicates 
.P
.B verbose_level
This option specifies how verbose the radclock should be. Possible values are 0 
(no verbose), 1 (normal verbose), 2 (maximum verbose).
.P
.B update_clock
If set to 1, this specifies that the radclock binaries attempt to update the structures
maintained in the kernel and opens a socket for serving time information to other running
processes. This option is usually reserved to the radclock running as a daemon.
.P 
.SH THE CLOCK INTERNAL PARAMETERS SECTION
.B poll_period Specifies the poll period used by the process generating NTP packets 
(ntpd or ntpdate for example).
.P
.B temperature_quality
Uses predefined parameters to fit your environment. This takes into account the hardware 
quality and age as well as some temperature environment. Recent hardware in a temperature
controlled environment should be set to excellent. An old machine nearby a window should
define a poor environment. If in doubt, set to good. 
.P
.B ts_limit
Experimental. Ask the maintainer. This settings are over-written by the temperature_quality keyword.
.P
.B skm_scale
Experimental. Ask the maintainer.This settings are over-written by the temperature_quality keyword.
.P
.B rate_error_bound
Experimental. Ask the maintainer. This settings are over-written by the temperature_quality keyword.
.P
.B best_skm_rate
Experimental. Ask the maintainer. This settings are over-written by the temperature_quality keyword.
.P
.B offset_ratio
Experimental. Ask the maintainer. This settings are over-written by the temperature_quality keyword.
.P
.B start_local_phat
Triggers the use of the local rate refinement. States are stop (0), start (1) or restart (2).
Restart is actually useful if the configuration is reloaded after the radclock caught a 
SIGHUP signal.
.P
.B use_sync_saved
Experimental. Uses previously stored values of the oscillator period and bypass warmup phase.
Better be patient and not use this feature (set it to 0).
.P
.B delta_host
Experimental. Estimated value of host asymmetry.
.P
.B delta_net
Experimental. Estimated value of network asymmetry.
.P

.SH THE NETWORK LEVEL PARAMETERS SECTION
.B src_host
This is the current host running the radclock. The radclock attempts to detect host name and
address but this may fail. To avoid confusion and ensure the correct NTP packets are captured
it is strongly recommended to specify the host name or IP address here.
.P
.B time_server 
The stratum-1 reference clock used to synchronize the host over the network. Again, strongly
recommended to ensure correct NTP packets are captured.
.P

.SH THE IN/OUT PARAMETERS SECTION
.B network_device
If the host has several network interfaces it could be useful to specify which one should be
used. The interface will be chosen first regardless of other settings.
.P
.B alt_device
Instead capturing NTP packets on a live interface, a raw data file in pcap format captured 
previously by the radclock can be replayed using this option.
.P
.B input_stamp_file
Instead of obtaining timestamps from NTP packets captured on a live interface, timestamps 
previously extracted by the radclock can be replayed using this option.
.P
.B out_device
Specify a pcap file to which dump raw NTP packets. This file is in pcap format and can be
parsed by tcpdump for example. Some fields have been slightly abused however.
.P
.B output_stamp_file
Dump timestamps extracted from NTP packets captured on a live interface.
.P
.B output_matlab_file
Dump clock performances parameters for post-processing.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR radclock (8),
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Configuration file and processing written by Julien Ridoux. See AUTHORS file for a list of 
all contributors to the code.
.PP
This manual page was written by Julien Ridoux <julien@synclab.org>.
